Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue on the discussion of tracing agent that is part of the gvm that comes with Beam.
And we said that this is very important topic because sometimes you want to tell the aesthetic analyzer
and the aesthetic compiler of native image extra information, right?
That helps to figure out what's going on.
And these are mostly the information that are somehow have a dynamic nature, for example, Java reflections.
So these are more like about the runtime or for example, Java Native interface Jrny which you have
to add runtime.
JVM finds the the binary library, the dynamic library loads it into memory and then calls those C or
C++ functions.
Right.
And we said that in order to do this, we have to use the EVM that comes with the Google home and it
has additional functionality, which is the agent lib.
So you tell the JV team that run my Java application, but activate a particular agent and in this case
we are interested in the native image agent.
So basically the job of the agent is to monitor the calls and all the resources that your application
uses during its lifetime, as long as it's running and then eventually creates a configuration files
or dump all those information to some directory, and then later on those configuration files are fed
to the native image compiler so that it gets more information.
And we said that during execution, the agent interfaces with the Java VM.
And remember this only works for the JVM that comes with the VM.
That's an additional functionality that they have added to the GVM that comes with the idea to intercept
all calls that look up classes.
These are dynamic class loading methods, reflection reflectively calling methods or accessing fields,
or somehow looking up their resources.
And for example, if you're using a if you want to load a or locate a particular resource, you have
to use, for example, a class loader that looks up all the resources on the class path and then is
able to load them into memory as byte streams or basically binary streams or request proxy accesses.
The agent then generates the files.
These are the configuration files in the format of json jni config.
If you have any native library access reflection config and obviously that's the reflection calls proxy
configuration and resource config, right.
If you're accessing a resource on the class path, if something that you are asking a class loader to
a specific load into memory in the specified output directory and we said that it's best to stick with
the default directory name which is meta inf slash native image.
That's because the native image compiler by default looks for such a directory name, which is the path
to the config dear in this command.
So you activate utility JVM activated agent What is that?
Agent It's the native image.
Agent What configuration?
What is the parameter that we're passing to native image is the config output directory and then it's
going to be set to whatever path and the default is meta inf slash native and note all these equality
signs that's there.
So in order to set a particular property of this agent, we use the equality sign.
Yeah.
Um which is path to conflict there in the example.
The generated files are stand alone configuration files in JSON format which contain all the intercepted
dynamic accesses.
And sometimes you have to run the JVM multiple times to intercept old cards.
I mean, this mainly applies to the case when JVM is waiting for user input to decide what to do, right.
We had in our previous example, the user was telling the application which class to look up for and
then which class to load into memory.
So obviously those inputs can change and based on that.
Basically the calls or the path that your application takes is different, right?
So and the compiler needs to know all those information.
It can be necessary to run target application more than once with different inputs.
So this is the important part to trigger separate execution paths for a better coverage of dynamic accesses.
The agent supports this with the config merge deer option, which adds the intercepted access to an
existing set of configuration files.
So JVM activates an agent.
Which agent is the native image agent?
Which parameter that we're going to set for this native image or which property is the config merge
here?
Instead of saying config output there, instead of saying config output deal, we still say config merged
here.
So what this does is it looks if the this path already exists, if it exists and the JSON files already
are there, it just appends the output to those files.
It doesn't overwrite them.
Right.
The default mode is overwrite the JSON files.
But if instead of saying config output, did you say config merge there, it appends them to the existing
JSON files if they specify target directory or configuration files in it are missing when using config
merge the agent creates them and prints a warning.
Right.
So merge assumes that they have they should be there and it's just opens those files in the append mode
instead of overwriting them or truncating them.
Right now, let's head to Eclipse and try to see a quick example.
We saw that we had this example of the reflection, direct access, no problem.
But this part that was asking user for which class to load.
This was something that obviously the aesthetic analyzer of the native image cannot predict because
that's impossible.
So you have to create the configuration files that have the information of, for example, what class
the user chose.
And now what we're going to do is
basically what I'm going to do is try to explore the idea of running the JVM multiple times and then
getting the JSON files for multiple inputs.
Right now here, this second line, which is the call to the method, is specifically tied to the fact
that, of course, the class is going to be one part class which was util for a select complex, complex
set.
But let's just comment this out and do a CSS out, let's say just a class.
And if I run this, if you recall in the run configuration of this reflection demo, I already supplied
this argument util forge complex, complex class.
Right.
So if you run this.
It works fine.
Right?
But then let's let's delete the previous, uh, uh, meta inf.
All right.
And let's run our class again inside Eclipse.
It works fine.
And then I'm going to go ahead.
And right now I use the the Oracle JDK or GRE system, but I want to run this with with the tracing
agent.
So I use my external application.
Let's look at, let's look back at the Java Trace, which is from the JVM from the Graph VM Project
Directory is the working directory.
And then we are activating the agent, which is the native image and config output directory in the
current working directory, which is the project location.
It puts it I use the default naming which is meta in native image.
So all the configuration files will be put in this native image inside the meta inf.
And remember I said that then when you run the native image, you have to make sure that this meta inf
directory is on the class path and then hyphen CP the class path.
We use the obviously the eclipse's internal variable so that everything is correctly on the class path
Java type name.
This is the fully qualified name of the class and whatever comes next is the command line arguments
that we pass to our application, right?
And I believe we can even break this.
So if you do a backwards slash something like this, you can break the line and go and put, for example,
the arguments here.
Right.
So let's apply this and then let's run this.
So let's let's delete these.
Um.
It says.
Could not find a load, so.
Okay.
So we cannot break those lines.
Let's go back.
Yeah.
So.
And let's apply run again.
Let's select our Java class and then run our Java trace and now it works fine, right.
And it creates the meta env.
And we saw that the main thing here is the reflect config, which intercepts the call that, hey, we
are dynamically accessing this complex class.
Right.
And this, this interception happens at this line of code based on the user input.
The command line argument is zero, right?
Now, notice what happens if we try to pass another class.
So here, instead of saying util forge complex, complex class, I can use another class, for example,
a real number apply or and then run.
We have to select our Java class and Java trace and this work and you see now this was overwritten,
but let's say I don't want to override the previous, I want to run my application with multiple inputs
and I want all of them to be intercepted and they were all be in this reflect config.
And in order to do that instead of saying basically config output there, we're going to say config
merge there.
So I'm going to actually duplicate this Java trace, I'm going to say Java trace, underscore merge.
And then in the merge instead of saying config output directory, I'm going to say config merge directory.
And I really love this.
I really love the fact that you can whatever you create as an external tool, you can quickly duplicate
it.
So you don't need to again set all this up.
It's very nice feature that this external tool provides and in my view, this external tool of eclipse
is one of the most important and most powerful features of Eclipse.
Right?
So let's close this.
Let's now.
Run our Java trace message and instead of saying real, I'm going to now go back to the complex, write
this command line arguments.
So let's apply, run it.
And now let's see.
Not only the previous one, which was the real is already there.
The new one, which is the complex, is also there.
So both of these calls are now part of the part of the the configuration that we're will be fed to the
native, which we can try different things.
For example, instead of saying util forge complex, complex, I can say java dot lang dot string.
Again, I'm still running the java trace merge.
Uh.
Okay, uh, let's see, let's run this Java Trace message.
And now not only the previous ones real complex and are there a string is also there.
Now let's quickly compile this so we are running.
Native in May 17, the second version, which not only has the class path.
It also appends the current working directive, which is the project location.
And again, I mentioned that the reason I'm doing this because this meta inf directory, I put it directly
inside this project directory and therefore I appended to the class path so that the native image by
default picks up on this matter inf and all these configuration files.
Right?
So if we run our native image to this JSON file, which is reflect config will be fed to our native
image so that it realizes that we're using three types of three classes reflectively.
We ran our job application three times.
We did with the agent, native agent on the JV team that is provided by the VM.
And then we that agent intercepted our inputs, write this reflective call for different inputs that
all four different possible inputs that the user might provide right now.
Obviously in this our example, the number of inputs that the user might provide are infinite.
So eventually we cannot have all of them.
But maybe sometimes you have an application that asks user for a particular set of inputs like input
number one, two, three, four.
Therefore, you can run your application four times and create these JSON files, use the merge output,
right, and then save all those possible paths and now the native image is exceeded.
Let's run this.
Application and make sure that all these three inputs work fine.
So I'm going to say a reflection demo.
Util Forge complex.
Complex.
This is one of the possible inputs that we provide and it works fine, right?
And if you recall in the previous example, when I replace this input with a Java Lang string, the
application failed.
But now that this class was also in the configuration file, it succeeds.
And obviously the other one which is util forge complex and then this also succeeds.
Right.
So this mainly is important when the number of inputs that your user might provide is, is basically
limited, right.
Which is usually the case.
You don't want the user to provide like put in, have the capability or have the freedom to put infinite
number of arguments because then there is no way that you can statically compile and then have all the
cases for all these dynamic class loading.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture.
We will continue in the next lecture, so please stay tuned and I'll sing the next one.